update!: Add AI chat recommendations (#2525)
privacyguides/privacyguides.org: docs/ai-chatbots.md

---
meta_title: "Recommended AI Chatbots : Private ChatGPT Alternatives - Privacy Guides"
title: "AI Chats"
icon: material-chat-processing-outline
description: Unlike OpenAI ChatGPT and it's successors, those AI Chats do not train their models using your conversations.
cover: file/file
---
Since the release of ChatGPT by OpenAI in December 2022, talking with Largue Language Models (LLMs) has become common. It can help us write better, understand unfamiliar subjects or answer a wide range of questions. However, the developpers of those models need data to improve their model. Unfortunately, this include your conversations with the AI.

> 

Reviewer: We can divide this into two parts: Cloud-based models and local models.

</div>
  
### Brave Leo AI

<div class="admonition recommendation" markdown>

![Brave Logo](assets/img/browsers/brave.svg){align=right}

**Brave Leo** is an AI assistant available inside the Brave browser, a browser which we recommend. 
[:octicons-home-16: Homepage](https://brave.com/leo)
[:octicons-eye-16:](https://brave.com/privacy/browser/#brave-leo){ .card-link title="Privacy Policy" }
[:octicons-info-16:](https://github.com/brave/brave-browser/wiki/Brave-Leo){ .card-link title=Documentation}

</details>
</div>
Brave Leo supports a range of models, including open-source models from Meta and Mixtral and closed-source models from Anthropic. Brave host the open models and do not retain chat or train on the data from those models. For Claude models, Brave proxies your chats through their servers,and the agreement between Brave and Anthropic states that chats are to be deleted after 30 days and that 'personal data' isn't used for training. Leo AI is available on the Brave Browser on all platforms. There is a strict rate limit for most models, but there is 1 free model whith an high-rate limit.

> 

Reviewer: GPT4ALL
Website: https://gpt4all.io/
GPT4All is an awesome free-to-use, locally running, privacy-aware chatbot developed by nomic.ai. After you install the app and download the models you want to use, it does not require access to the internet. Depending on your device RAM and storage, you can use a variety of open source models. It is available on Linux, Windows, and MacOS.

Telemetry, and the use of your chats for training purposes are opt-in and we do not suggest to activate those.

There is also LLamaChat, but apart from its UI, I dont see any reason to suggest it: https://www.llamachat.app/

[:simple-torbrowser:](https://duckduckgogg42xjoc72x3sjasowoarfbgcmvfimaftt6twagswzczad.onion/aichat){ .card-link title="Onion Service" }
[:octicons-eye-16:](https://duckduckgo.com/aichat/privacy-terms){ .card-link title="Privacy Policy" }
[:octicons-info-16:](https://help.duckduckgo.com){ .card-link title=Documentation}

</div>

DuckDuckGo offers proprietary models from Anthropic and Open AI, as well as open-source models from Meta and Mistral. To protect your privacy, DuckDuckGo proxies your chats through their servers. The privacy policy states that providers are "deleting all information received once it is no longer necessary to provide Outputs (at most within 30 days with limited exceptions for safety and legal compliance)." For open-weights models, Duck uses together.ai and Duck has "disabled chat history by turning on the option to "not store prompts and responses" on the together.ai platform.".

 It is available directly on [DuckDuckGo](https://duckduckgo.com), or [duck.ai](https://duck.ai). It is also available on DDG's onion site.
<div class="admonition danger" markdown>
<p class="admonition-title">Proprietary models providers retain your chats</p>

> Anthropic and OpenAI stores chats for up to 30 days. Do not use those models for anything you wouldn't want the World to know about.

Reviewer 2: Changes to the language to make this admonition more consistent with the Anthropic admonition in the Brave Leo section:

```suggestion
We recommend against using the proprietary models from Anthropic or OpenAI because those providers keep chat history for up to 30 days.
```

[:octicons-eye-16:](https://brave.com/privacy/browser/#brave-leo){ .card-link title="Privacy Policy" }
[:octicons-info-16:](https://github.com/brave/brave-browser/wiki/Brave-Leo){ .card-link title=Documentation}

</div>
Brave Leo supports a variety of models, including open-source models from Meta and Mixtral, and closed-source models from Anthropic. Additionally, on the desktop Nightly version, you can use your local models, or any third-party providers with a standard API. Brave self-hosts the open models and do not retain chat history or use chats for models training. Leo can enhance its knowledge through web searches, similar to Microsoft Copilot. However, Brave's AI solution still faces challenges with multi-language support. Leo AI is available on the Brave Browser on all platforms. There is a strict rate limit for most models, but one free model has a high rate limit.

<div class="admonition danger" markdown>
<p class="admonition-title">Page content is sent by default </p>
We recommend manually switching off the "Use page context for response" toggle for pages with PII.
</div>
<div class="admonition danger" markdown>

> <p class="admonition-title">Claude chats are kept for 30 days </p>

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
<p class="admonition-title">Proprietary model providers retain your chats</p>
```

> We recommend against using Anthropic's Claude models because the company keeps a chat history for 30 days.

Reviewer 2: Changes to make this admonition more consistent with the admonition in the Duckduckgo section:

```suggestion
We recommend against using Anthropic's proprietary Claude models because Anthropic keeps chat history for up to 30 days.
```

<div class="admonition danger" markdown>
<p class="admonition-title">Page content is sent by default </p>
We recommend manually switching off the "Use page context for response" toggle for pages with PII.
</div>
<div class="admonition danger" markdown>
<p class="admonition-title">Claude chats are kept for 30 days </p>
We recommend against using Anthropic's proprietary Claude models because Anthropic keeps chat history for up to 30 days.
</div>

## Local solutions
**Local AI** models offer a more private and secure alternative to cloud-based solutions, as **your data never leaves your device** and is therefore not shared with third-party providers. This provides peace of mind and **allows you to share sensitive information**.

To run basic AI models you will fortunately not need a high-end computer. A computer with 8GB of RAM will be sufficient to run a 7B-8B parameters model. One issue with local models is that they have a slower inference speed than their cloud conterparts. You can remedy this by using your GPU.

>  But what language models can you run ? Meta and Mistral release their best model under an "open" license, while Google and Microsoft only release small, less capable models. The two leaders in the field OpenAI and Anthropic do not release their model publicly.But you can't run models in their original form, you will need to run [quantized models](https://huggingface.co/docs/optimum/en/concept_guides/quantization). You can download the quantized models in a format called GGUF from [Hugging Face] (https://huggingface.co/models?sort=trending&search=.GGUF).

Reviewer 2: Suggested (optional) rewrite:
```suggestion
There are many permissively licensed models available which can be run locally. [Hugging Face](https://huggingface.co/models?library=gguf) is a platform which lets you browse, research, and download models in common formats like GGUF. In addition to big names like Mistral, Meta, Microsoft, and Google, there are many community models and 'fine-tunes' to choose from. For consumer grade hardware, it is generally recommended to use [quantized models](https://huggingface.co/docs/optimum/en/concept_guides/quantization) for the best balance between model quality and performance.
```

---

> meta_title: "Recommended AI Chatbots : Private ChatGPT Alternatives - Privacy Guides"

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
meta_title: "Recommended AI Chats : Private ChatGPT Alternatives - Privacy Guides"
```

title: "AI Chats"
icon: material/assistant
description: Unlike OpenAI's ChatGPT and its Big Tech rivals, those AI tools do not train their models using your conversations.
cover: ai-chatbots.webp
---
<small>Protects against the following threat(s):</small>

- [:material-account-cash: Surveillance Capitalism](basics/common-threats.md#surveillance-as-a-business-model){ .pg-brown }
- [:material-close-outline: Censorship](basics/common-threats.md#avoiding-censorship){ .pg-blue-gray }

> Since the release of **ChatGPT** in 2022, talking with **Large Language Models** (*LLMs*) has become common. **LLMs can help us** write better, understand unfamiliar subjects or answer a wide range of questions. However, the developers of those models **need data to improve their models**. Unfortunately, this often **includes your conversations** with the AI. Those privates conversations must be stored, which introduces a risk of data breaches. Furthermore, there is a real possibility the LLM will leak your private information in future conversations with other users.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Since the release of **ChatGPT** in 2022, talking with **Large Language Models** (*LLMs*) has become common. **LLMs can help us** write better, understand unfamiliar subjects or answer a wide range of questions. However, the developers of those models **need data to improve their models**. Unfortunately, this often **includes your conversations** with the AI. Those private conversations must be stored, which introduces a risk of data breaches. Furthermore, there is a real possibility the LLM will leak your private information in future conversations with other users.
```

To solve this problem, you can use trusted and privacy-focused providers, or run AI models locally so your data never leaves your device.

## Recommended Solutions

## Cloud providers

The recommendations for online providers here do not train their models using your chats and do not retain your chats for more than 14 days, based on each service's privacy policy. However, there is **no guarantee** that these privacy policies are honored.

> When using cloud-based AI chatbots, be mindful of the personal information you share. Even if a service doesn't store your conversations, there's still a risk of sensitive data being exposed or misused. **Do not share sensitive information** related to health, finance, or other highly personal matters to protect your privacy and security.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
When using cloud-based AI chats, be mindful of the personal information you share. Even if a service doesn't store your conversations, there's still a risk of sensitive data being exposed or misused. **Do not share sensitive information** related to health, finance, or other highly personal matters to protect your privacy and security.
```

---
meta_title: "Recommended AI Chatbots : Private ChatGPT Alternatives - Privacy Guides"
title : "AI Chatbots"
icon: file/file
description: Unlike OpenAI ChatGPT and it's successors, those AI Chatbots do not train their models using your conversations.

> cover:file/file

Reviewer 4: I just think we should change the name of this category **AI Chat** as it is the standard name used by every AI product. Also, I personally prefer this image as it is more clear that this is "talking robots "
https://unsplash.com/photos/a-white-robot-with-blue-eyes-and-a-laptop--0xMiYQmk8g
